Okay, so hooking into more of next components,
we want to hook into the routing component
to make use of loading transition,
and a really nice little package for that is NProgress.
This is what it looks like, it's loading across the top,
and then we can (mumbles).
It comes with two things, the bar across the top
and this loading spinner here,
and you can change colours and so on.
I'm gonna do an NPM instal for NProgress,
and we're also gonna have to go and grab the CSS.
So we'll do NPM instal NProgress.
I'm also gonna copy this
into the static directory, so static and wget that one,
probably should get compressed version,
but I'll deal with that later.
Then to get it to work on this page,
what we need to do is in my layout,
I need to listen to
the route transitions.
I'm gonna import router from next router, I think it is.
There's actually an example on how to do this already.
In the example's directory, the next author
and you can see all we have to do
is just grab this bit of code, so we're saying,
let's just talk through what we're looking at here,
so we're saying when the router starts,
starts transition and start NProgress and do,
I actually forgot to import it, NProgress,
and when it's complete, the marker is done,
but also there's any errors,
also call the done handler on NProgress.
Let's give that a quick try.
Just do a hard refresh, nothing happening.
Let's check the console to see if
we are doing the loading, we are.
Ah, we've forgotten the CSS, I've forgotten the CSS.
I'm just gonna add it into here for the time being.
Rel equals style sheet,
href equals static NProgress.
So could be that this is all cached already.
Let's look, we've got the style sheet there,
and no we don't.
Let's just do hard refresh just to be sure.
I think it is showing it,
but I think our colours are completely the wrong colour.
Let's have a quick look at the documentation
on how to change the colour.
Think maybe just NProgress CSS,
the background, let's make that hot pink,
like that, hot pink, yeah.
Let's change these to hot pink.
And then let's give that a try.
There we go, yeah, it was literally
the same colour as my background.
So if any of these pages take a little longer to load,
when these are running in the client side,
but if there's any loading process
and a backend request is happening,
this loading spinner will indicate
that something's actually happening.
These are kind of a big deal, really, because
the more we push rendering into the client side
and there's some API request happening in the background,
if there's no indication that something's happened,
it's very easy to just assume that it's broken.
I literally a week ago put out a bit of software
for one of my customers, and there was no UX to say
something was happening when they were doing things.
It was just taking two or three seconds
to complete a big batch transaction.
They clicked on a button, not submit,
but a button, and nothing was happening,
but by just adding that one progress loader,
showed them that at least my software had acknowledged
the action the user made, and it was doing something,
so that small change allowed the user
to actually get an idea that something was happening,
and all of a sudden they feel a lot more confident
in what they're looking at.